#summary Brainstorm page for future versions.
#labels Section-Proposal,Status-Draft

None of the ideas and suggestions on this page carry any meaning other than give a basis for the future planning of the Re-Mote Testbed Framework. Some of the ideas may be fleshed out in more details in separate REP (Re-Mote Enhancement Proposal) design documents later on, but right now this page serves mostly as a collection of 

[http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=label:Milestone-Release2.0 Some issues] have already been assigned to the next major milestone.

 * [http://ws.apache.org/axis2/1_3/migration.html Move to Axis 2] as the platform for client RPC

 * Combine the DB and WS components into one all-in-on server module. Can later be followed with control libraries from the GUI component that are going to be needed for running jobs on the server.

 * Restructure the Java package namespace to use `remote.foo` instead of `diku.distlab` (remote-gui) or nothing at all (remote-ws).

 * Add support for "Re-Mote Testbed Descriptor" which should provide a way for clients to get and keep updated with information on which host and port the mote control server and web services are on. This *resource discovery* mechanism could be as simple as a web service making it possible to start a client with a simple URL to add a testbed to "known places".

 * Replace Boost::program_options with small custom config file parser. This dependency is overkill and it is a major pain to have to compile Boost just to read a very simple config file.

 * Make it possible to specify IP ranges for which most host connections the mote control server should allow.