#summary Development roadmap and release plans
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Requirements

= The Re-Mote Roadmap =

This pages provides an overview of the plans concerning all future milestones.  For each milestone, tasks are listed into related groups. Any significant task has an associated issue for tracking its progress and status; issues should always be created when a task involves several modules. Most details for tasks are available in the task's associated issue page.

Get an overview of the status of open issues and what needs work via the issue tracker's search page; links are provided for each milestone. Resolved issues are displayed with a "strike through" link.

To complement the roadmap, larger tasks and design changes requiring detailed investigation should be described and discussed in [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/w/list?q=label:Phase-RFC enhancement proposal documents].

== Re-Mote Testbed Framework version 1.0 ==

The overall goal of this release is to have all the basic things working. The main focus is to make the "backbone" of the framework support features required by the DIKU and CIT testbeds.

Open issues sorted by [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-release1.0&can=2&x=component&y=status&mode=grid status] or [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-release1.0&can=2&x=component&y=priority&mode=grid     priority]. [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-release1.0&can=1 All] issues belonging to this milestone.

=== Usability ===

Not a lot will change on the client side, but it should be polished a bit, especially regarding startup, and unfinished features should be hidden from the user. Documentation for administrators should be provided to ease installation and maintainence of testbeds.

 * Issue 3: Display mote platform in the mote panes.

 * Issue 4: Update state of control motes in the all motes pane. This will not require any round-trip time, only an update of data already in the client.

 * Issue 14: Remove/disable the potentially misleading "motes map", since it is unlikely to be ready for this release.

 * Issue 16: This should both improve error handling during start-up and make it possible to configure MCS server and port via a dialog.

 * Issue 13: Listing supported platform and required dependencies are a must for new people considering the use of Re-Mote.

=== Security ===

The focus for this release is not security and no extensive code audit has been made, but since this release is intended to change the status of the framework from "testing" to "production", problem areas that have been uncovered in the release cycle need to be fixed.

 * Issue 1: Prevent possible SQL injection attacks. All queries should be changed to use `PreparedStatement`.

=== Interoperability ===

The framework will be running at multiple sites making requirements for interoperability and portability more important. Although big changes are not expected, improvement to make it conform more to the design of existing systems will make it easier to port to new future sites.

 * Issue 2: Fix problems with mysql++ usage being incompatible across different versions of the library.

 * Issue 5: Prepare DB for IPv6 support.

 * Issue 18: Make MCI daemons create .pid files in /var/run/.

 * Issue 20: Move UDEV helper scripts from /etc/udev/scripts/ to /lib/udev.

=== Infrastructure ===

Changes to the "backbone" infrastructure is the main focus. The plan is to make especially the very site specific parts of MCI more generally usable and easy to adapt to new testbed infrastructures.

 * Issue 6: Make MCH support the use of external programs to control mote start, stop, and reset, similar to how programming is currently done via an external program.

 * Issue 7: Add support Tmote and MicaZ.

 * Issue 9: Using strings for mote TOS/MAC addresses will allow to simplify things considerably and remove usage of the `tosaddress` and `macaddress` DB tables.

 * Issue 10: Remove the `tosaddress` and `macaddress` site specific tables.

 * Issue 17: Although this design approach will require some more initial thoughts and work, it will reduce the need for future changes wrt. mote attribute handling.

== Re-Mote Testbed Framework version 2.0 ==

Open issues sorted by [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-release2.0&can=2&x=component&y=status&mode=grid status] or [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-release2.0&can=2&x=component&y=priority&mode=grid     priority]. [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-release2.0&can=1 All] issues belonging to this milestone.

=== Usability ===

 * Issue 12: Add application to make testbed administration easier. Crucial for large testbeds.

=== Infrastructure ===

 * Issue 11: Reorganizing the files of the DB module will further improve the self-documenting hierarchy of this module.

 * Issue 15: Reorganizing the GUI code will make it more hackable in Java IDEs, which are very good at catching stuff like deprecated methods.

 * Issue 19: Use inotify in MCH to watch the device hierarchy

== Re-Mote Testbed Framework version "future" ==

Open issues sorted by [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-future&can=2&x=component&y=status&mode=grid status] or [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-future&can=2&x=component&y=priority&mode=grid     priority]. [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?q=milestone-future&can=1 All] issues belonging to this milestone.

=== Usability ===

 * Re-Mote Eclipse plugin

=== Interoperability ===

 * Issue 8: MCH should support IPv6, however, as long as it is not requested (and thus there are no testers) this can be postponed.