#summary Development roadmap and release plans
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-RFC

This pages provides an overview of the plans concerning all future milestones.  For each milestone, tasks related with the different modules are listed. Any significant task of has an associated issue for tracking its progress and status; issues should always be created when a task involves several modules. Most details for tasks are available in the task's associated issue page, however, motivation why this should be changed in the tagged milestone and other planning related comments should be mentioned here.

Note, that resolved issues are displayed with a "strike through" link. Get an overview of the status of other issues via the issue tracker's search page; links are provided for each milestone.

== Re-Mote Testbed Framework version 1.0 ==

The goal of this release is to have all the basic things working. The main focus is to support features required by the DIKU and CIT testbeds.

View all the open issues belonging to this release [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?can=2&q=release1.0&colspec=ID+Type+Component+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Summary&x=component&y=priority&mode=grid&cells=tiles  sorted by priority] or
[http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?can=2&q=release1.0&sort=&mode=grid&y=Status&x=Component&cells=tiles&nobtn=Update sorted by status] ( [http://code.google.com/p/remote-testbed/issues/list?can=1&q=release1.0&x=component&y=status&mode=grid&cells=tiles all]) to get an overview of what needs work.

=== remote-db ===

 * Issue 3: Add mote platform attribute. The priority should probably be higher than tosaddress and macaddress?

 * Issue 10: Remove the `tosaddress` and `macaddress` site specific tables.

 * Issue 5: Prepare for IPv6 support.

=== remote-ws ===

 * Issue 1: Prevent possible SQL injection attacks. All queries should be changed to use `PreparedStatement`.

=== remote-mci ===

 * Issue 2: Fix problems with mysql++ usage being incompatible across different versions of the library.

 * Issue 3: MCH should read mote platform via mote device file, send the information to MCS, which should put it in the database as a mote attribute.

 * Issue 6: Make MCH support the use of external programs to control mote start, stop, and reset, similar to how programming is currently done via an external program.

 * Issue 7: Add support Tmote and MicaZ.

 * Issue 13: Listing supported platform and required depencies are a must for new people considering the use of Re-Mote.

 * Issue 9: Using strings for mote TOS/MAC addresses will allow to simplify things considerably and remove usage of the `tosaddress` and `macaddress` DB tables.

=== remote-gui ===

 * Issue 3: Display mote platform in the mote panes.

 * Issue 4: Update state of control motes in the all motes pane. This will not require any round-trip time, only an update of data already in the client.

 * Issue 14: Remove/disable the potentially misleading "motes map", since it is unlikely to be ready for this release.

== Re-Mote Testbed Framework version 2.0 ==

 * Issue 12: Making testbed administration easier is crucial for large testbeds.

=== remote-db ===

 * Issue 11: Reorganizing the files of the DB module will further improve the self-documenting hierarchy of this module.

=== remote-gui ===

 * Issue 15: Reorganizing the code will make it more hackable in Java IDEs, which are very good at catching stuff like deprecated methods.

== Re-Mote Testbed Framework version "future" ==

=== remote-mci ===

 * Issue 8: MCH should support IPv6, however, as long as it is not requested (and thus there are no testers) this can be postponed.